  One function of an operating system is to provide a user interface to make things easier to use. Without the user interface, your computer screen would be a jumble of code and command lines. This is probably the most useful function of the operating system.
  Another function of the operating system is the management of computer resources. This is by far the most vital function of an operating system. It manages everything from the CPU, the your disk drives or any other attached devices.
  The third function of your operating system is to run applications. These apps cover pretty much everything you do on a computer, even this browser that you're reading this note on. Without your operating system, none of this would be nearly as pleasant or feasible as it is now.

 Android OS 

  The first operating system I use is the Android OS. Currently on Android 11, this OS has been in use since the early 2000’s and has since been greatly refined and improved upon to provide a truly user friendly and wholly personalized experience. The greatest advantage Android offers is its open platform. Should you desire, you can change almost anything about your device, from system sounds to fonts, even custom app tiles. There is a world of endless possibilities within Android. However, by the same coin, this open platform is also its greatest weakness. As any user can upload or download any app on the market, and often for free, this can cause a lot of volatility in the app market. Users have to be very careful that they are not downloading a virus or spyware onto their device, and with the millions of apps on the market, it would be a lot easier to do than you would think. However, with some due diligence, and a bit of research, you can prevent disaster from befalling you.  

 Windows 10 

  Windows has been around for almost 40 years now. What started as essentially just a GUI overlay on an MS-DOS installation is now a full-blooded API that can run 64-bit programs. Windows has quite a few strengths ranging from its ease of use to its personalization. Like Android, Windows allows for complete freedom to customize and personalize your device. Nothing is off limits with Windows, you can change the most minute details within the operating software. Windows is also extremely easy to use. A lot of the ease of use comes from the fact that Windows is very plug and play. Want to use a microphone? Plug it in and the computer will handle the rest. Same with cameras, game pads, speakers, even proprietary devices like Guitar Hero guitars and MIDI instruments. If it exists, there is most likely a driver for it. With these strengths comes weaknesses, however. It’s a well-known fact that Windows PC’s a lot of times require a high number of resources to run. Especially when wanting to run demanding apps or games. This necessitates the purchase of high-end computer parts like processors, graphics cards, hard drives, RAM sticks, and more. Windows users are also particularly vulnerable in terms of viruses. It is very easy to get infected by a webpage or a rogue download, and it requires the use of often outrageous anti-virus programs to help keep your PC safe. As well, you will find that it is very easy to cause problems in your computer with just the flick of a switch. Whether it be changing settings, or trying to fine tune your performance, it is often that you will find conflict within the computer settings, and then begins the slog of trying to find what is causing the conflict, and trying to resolve it. Despite these weaknesses, however, using a PC is a truly wonderful experience, as you can make your computer truly your own, and have it be unique, and you PC will also be able to do more than any other device out there should you beef it up enough. 
